CMPE 12L
Digital Logic
Katerina Chinnappan
Email: kachinna@ucsc.edu
Student ID: 1512312
Lab section #23367


Description/Purpose

In this lab we learned about MultiMedia Logic, how to use it and how to simulate a simple 
logic schematic. We also learned about the AND, NAND, OR, XOR, NOT gates and truth tables. 
We learned how to convert truth tables into Boolean expressions. 

Procedure

In order to correctly build the logical circuits using the MML tool, I first drew some 
diagrams on paper to have an outline. I then translated the picture onto MML. I added some 
switches, LED (outputs) some gates (AND, NAND, OR, XOR, NOT) and connected them with wires. 
I also checked that my output is correct by turning on and off the switches and watching the 
lights. For example, for the truth table part, I turned on an off some switches and made sure the LED was functioning property 
according to the given truth table. 

Challenges

Some challenges encountered in this lab was with the logic and flow of the circuits. Part D, 
theguessing game was a bit challenging for me. I had to draw couple of diagrams so I would 
get the logic right and I would use proper gates. 

Lab Questions
1)	Think about how you would make the digit display if you didn’t have one. Write out
how you would approach doing so. 

Since this digit is an 8 segmental LED, (8 segments) I would use LED’S and light them up the 
same way as the digit would work. That would be more complex and require more logic but it 
could still work.


2)	Make some sort of guess on how that random number generator works? How can things be 
really random in a computer with logic gates being so, well, logical? 

In my opinion the random number generator works in such way that is dependent on the exact 
timing of the electric signals. Basically they can’t be random since each output has an 
algorithm behind it. I think of it as pseudo-numbers which produce a special kind of number 
sequence that appears to us to be random. 

Conclusion 

Overall I got the logic and how the gates work. At first it was a little confusing but I got
it after all. The truth table wasn’t so hard to draw out. The random number generator was a 
little challenging since I could play with the logic but it turned out to work fine. 





